# Informative: The Secret Success in the Technology Industry
An informative speech by Brett Bender

  Let's admit it, we all wish it was easy to succeed in the technology industry, but it's not all fun and games. There are already tons of startups that have walked this trail before you, and their route is quite evident, but I want you to go off the beaten path and explore the market unlike you ever have. The reality of the situation is that only a small percentage of tech startups are able to pull a profit, but these 3 tips should give you a good start.

  But before we get to those tips, let's start off somewhere that makes sense, the beginning. In 1976 Steve Jobs and Steve Wozniak put out the first computer from the Apple Computer Company. With Micro-Soft beginning to license MS-DOS, an operating system, with their own personal computer manufacturers, the *computer* we know today was born. By 1985 Microsoft released a new operating system, Windows. 10 years later in 1995, Windows 95 released, with a new-fangled start-menu. In the early 21st century, when the internet had just begun to boom, companies like Apple released the first smartphone, and Google, their version of the search engine.

  With that short history lesson out of the way, let's get to the first tip I have for you. **Finding an area that needs some work**. This doesn't have to be hard. If you're ever using a piece of software and think that it should be changed, *voila*, you now have a corner of the industry to work in. Just because you think it needs to change though, doesn't mean everyone will want it to be changed, so you could also go and ask other people what they think, as a consumer, should be changed. This brings me to my next tip.

  **Learn from your mistakes**. This one also doesn’t have to be hard, just by trying to run a small business once, you already have a higher chance of being able to succeed the next time around. This also rolls into software development. Just by trying to develop a piece of software once, if you do it the right way, you have laid the groundwork for better software development. You can then look at what made your previous product fail and adapt to those concerns. Which takes me to my final tip.

  **Stay enthusiastic**. I’m sure everyone has heard “If you enjoy what you do, you’ll never work a day in your life.” If you can find a project you love working on, even if it isn’t majorly successful, you are gaining skills that have the potential to be used later in your life. According to several studies loving your job is the first step to succeeding at that job, and if you aren’t loving it, why are you in the technology industry?

  I firmly believe that each of these tips will provide you great benefit, whether or not you are working in technology. To succeed in life is not to make exorbitant amounts of cash, but to enjoy the work you are doing. By following these 3 tips you should be able to live up to that and enjoy life to the fullest, Thank You.
