Learning is something we’ve all had to do in our lives, and we have been learning since we were born, and will be up until we die. Learning is part of human instinct, we learn to survive, to advance. Some people attend schools to gain their knowledge, while others focus on experiencing, and either way can provide you with spectacular knowledge. However, I do believe, that experiencing is the more important form of learning. 
  
The renowned Indian Philosopher J. Krishnamurti said that: “There is no end to education. It is not that you read a book, pass an examination, and finish with education. The whole of life, from the moment you are born to the moment you die, is a process of learning.” Learning is a process, a process in which you attempt to gain knowledge in the hopes of being able to accomplish a task. It is certain that we learn all the time, when we breath, when we walk, and in everything we do. It is also undeniable that academic knowledge is not everything. A book may be able to give you a few moments of relaxation and famous quotes and sayings, but they are unable to provide you a better understanding of life; neither can taking a test nor finishing an education. Qualifications are a record of what you have learned, but are not relevant to what you need to know in order to live normally in this world. Remembering exact theories and science is not all, you need to be able to find a way to apply it to your daily life and job, and doing that is when you learn most.
  
Similarly, knowledge from books and knowledge from experience have the same starting point, real life. While experience is what people can gain from going out into the world around them, books are just a record of that. Humans have never stopped observing nor thinking about events around them, and they’ve often tried to preserve this knowledge, whether in books or another format. People around the world have gone to many places, experienced many things, and then went on to write about them to preserve the knowledge for the next people. Mankind’s knowledge takes root in life itself, and that life is an unending source of knowledge that has a need to be explored, inspiring people and making them learn nonstop.
  
Just remember while in school, focus not on memorizing exact formulas or methods for a process, but on the applications of those ideas. In that way you'll likely be able to exercise your knowledge in everyday life, and have a better understanding of the world around you. 
