# How to become a freelance developer

Hi, my name is Brett Bender, and I am from Rio High School. 12 years ago I discovered the wonderful world of computing, or at least I think so. I would've been 3 years old when I started playing video games, whether it be on a computer, or on our old PS1. It wasn't until 6 years later, that I would find the deep dark hole of programming. I started out with one of the most simplistic languages there are, then gradually over the past 6 years I learned more and more languages, dependent on the situation and the application I was developing. It wasn't until recently I became a freelance software developer, which is what I'm here to explain for you today.

In our current society there is a ton of demand for developers of any kind, whether it be web developers, or application developers. Almost every company you can think of has some sort of in house developer, so there are a plethora of jobs out there. But I'm not here to focus on  getting hired at a company, I'm here to look at *being* your company. Now, getting started as a freelance developer can look like a daunting task, but there are few things you really need to focus on. The first of course being, investment.

By investment I don't necessarily mean direct money expenditures, but by time and effort. Just like any other job, you can't get anywhere without being willing to put some work into it, whether that be by expanding your skillset, or putting yourself out there, trying to get customers. That's not to say there aren't cash investments, because there are a few. But the primary purchase you will come across is your development hardware.

For an example I have here with me today my laptop. This isn't any super fancy top of the line machine, but it certainly gets the job done, as by no means is it what we like to call in the business, a "craptop". This beautiful Lenovo 14s cost me a whole $645, which is no small cost for a high schooler. I'm not going to directly say that you should buy this laptop, or even buy a laptop in general, because we all have our own preferences, but I will give you a few general hints for shopping.

First up is to look for a machine with at least 4 cores. Most laptops or desktops manufactured in the past 5 years should have this by standard now, but it's definitely something to be on the lookout for. The second item to keep an eye out for is a minimum of 8 gigabytes of RAM. From there most specs don't matter, as long as the hardware is recent, you should be all set.

After you've got your development machine in hand, it's time to decide what you want to be building. I try to market myself as a general software engineer, dabbling in pretty much everything. This makes me much more appealing to the average consumer, who's often looking for a general app or website designer. This does cause me to be less attractive for a business, as they are generally looking for a more specialized developer, so you definitely need to choose your market.

For someone getting started I most often recommend to become a web developer. This is because of the massive market there is, given that everyone and their dog has a website. This also makes you useful to both markets, consumers and businesses. From there I'd say to become whatever you're most interested in, as if you do what you love, you'll never work a day in your life.

So you've found yourself your niche, now you need to start building your portfolio. This is usually done either by doing cheaper contract work for friends, or by working on general projects you care about. Another great way of expanding your portfolio and your experience is through open source development.

This is the perfect place to talk about where you should be storing all of your code. Oftentimes while developing you'll come across a website named GitHub. GitHub is the industry standard platform that encourages the sharing of code and collaboration of people all over the world, in what are called "repositories". Each repository is usually it's own individual project, and people can make changes to both their own repositories, as well as "forking" others' projects to make their own changes to the codebase. In general, if you can find a repository you love, showing your knowledge through contributions is invaluable experience to show to potential customers.

You've by now built up your portfolio, and been able to show you at least have *some* skills, so it's time to start hustling. Start talking to people, both online and off, getting a general feel for the market and putting yourself out there. Just remember when looking for a job, that you aren't a complete expert in your field, and to give your client realistic expectations for the end product, and time needed. 

Always know that there is a learning curve to the process, and that you need to understand better what it means to be a freelancer, and that's not something that can be instantly taught. Be brave and summon up your old friend Google if needed. Don't rush the projects you take on and definitely don't take shortcuts in the process.

If you have any questions about anything I talked about feel free to ask me when you see me around. Thank You.
